# ARTS

## Algorithm

**Problem** [Add Two Numbers](https://leetcode.com/problems/add-two-numbers/description/)

### Solution 1:  Elementary Math

Keep track of the overflow sign and simulate digits-by-digits sum starting from the head of list.

```Java
class Solution {
    public ListNode addTwoNumbers(ListNode l1, ListNode l2) {
        // overflow sign
        int sign = 0;

        int v1;
        int v2;

        ListNode node = new ListNode(0);

        ListNode curr = node;

        while (null != l1 || null != l2) {
            
            v1 = null == l1 ? 0 : l1.val;
            v2 = null == l2 ? 0 : l2.val;

            int v = v1 + v2 + sign;
            
            sign = v > 9 ? 1 : 0;
            
            v = v % 10;
            
            curr.next = new ListNode(v);
            curr = curr.next;

            if (null != l1) {
                l1 = l1.next;
            }

            if (null != l2) {
                l2 = l2.next;
            }
        }

        if (sign > 0) {
            curr.next = new ListNode(sign);
        }

        return node.next;
    }
}
```

**Complexity Analysis**
- Time complexity: O(max(m, n))
- Space complexity: O(max(m, n))

## Review

[Some study on database storage internals](https://medium.com/@kousiknath/data-structures-database-storage-internals-1f5ed3619d43)

This article talks about the database storage internals.

- B Tree([B Tree](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/B-tree) and [B+ Tree](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/B%2B_tree))
- LSM Tree([Log Structured Merge Tree](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Log-structured_merge-tree))
- [Fractal Tree Index](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fractal_tree_index)

## Tip

Nowadays API testing is our daily work. To test API that you've written or written by someone else, some tools may be needed. **Postman** is very helpful for us to test APIs.

Postman app can be downloaded [here](https://www.getpostman.com/apps).

With postman we can use command line to test APIs.

A nodejs environment is required.
First we should install newman with nodejs. Newman is the command line tool of the Postman.

    npm i -g newman

And then you can test the collection with newman in the command line as follows.

    newman run xxx_collection.json

## Share
After reading the last [arts](https://github.com/J1031/arts/blob/master/2018/0628.md), <kbd>[Hao Chen](https://github.com/haoel)</kbd> suggested that I talk about the theory behind the ssh key and why are ssh keys more secure than passwords.

As we all know that the network is vulnerable to hack, every message that you send can be **seen** and **replaced** by someone else in the network. 

### Using Passwords
Passwords authentication process can be described as follows.

    // client side
    username, password = usernameYouInput, passwordYouInput

    // network
    usernameThroughNetwork, passwordThroughNetwork = sendToServerThroughNetwork(username, password)

    // server side
    result = authenticate(usernameThroughNetwork, passwordThroughNetwork)

You input your username and password and then send them to th server through the network. The server received the username and password and authenticate with them. Everything seems going well. But wait a minute, in the step **sendToServerThroughNetwork**, username and password can be **SEEN** by someone else in the network. And he or she then can do authenticate using your username and password!

### Using SSH Keys
SSH Key authentication process can be described as follows.

    // client side
    sendAuthenticationRequest()

    // network
    sendAuthenticationRequestThroughNetwork()

    // server side
    randomValue = generateRandomValue()

    // network
    randomValueThroughNetwork = sendToClientThroughNetwork(randomValue)

    // client side
    encryptedRandomValue = encryptUsingPrivateKey(randomValueThroughNetwork, privateKeyStoredInClient)

    // network
    encryptedRandomValueThroughNetwork = sendToServerThroughNetwork(encryptedRandomValue)

    // server side
    decryptedRandomValue = decryptUsingPublicKey(encryptedRandomValueThroughNetwork, publicKeyStoredInServerByUser)
    result = authenticate(randomValue, decryptedRandomValue)

The message is encrypted and decrypted by public/private key pair and private key is never sent through the network, so there is no risk of the private key exposure in the network steps.

### Conclusion
So, to sum up, using ssh key is considerably more secure than using password.




